# Python-Image-Steganography
Devised a 2-way encryption+decryption algorithm that helps hide text in images using the LSB steganography technique using the PIL library. This image can be sent to anyone, but can only be decoded correctly with the help of a key set by the sender. Coded particularly for Google Colab.

Motivation 

Modern Communications are growing day by day and hence they need some special means of  Computer Network Security. Today, network security is very crucial as data or message transfers across the internet are more than ever. Therefore, confidentiality and data integrity are required to protect against unauthorized access and use. This has resulted in an explosive growth of the field of information hiding Information hiding is an emerging research area, which encompasses applications such as copyright protection for digital media, watermarking, fingerprinting, and steganography. 

According to the definition Steganography is the practice of hiding private or sensitive information within something that appears to be nothing out of the ordinary. Steganography is often confused with cryptology because the two are similar in the way that they both are used to protect important information. The difference between the two is that steganography involves hiding information so it appears that no information is hidden at all. If a person or persons views the object that the information is hidden inside of he or she will have no idea that there is any hidden information, therefore the person will not attempt to decrypt the information.

Advantage of using Steganography over Cryptography?
Till now, cryptography has always been used to protect the secrecy between the sender and the receiver. However, nowadays we use steganography in the place of cryptography as it provides more protective layers to the hidden data. The main advantage of using steganography is that the intended secret message does not attract attention to itself. It is just like a normal object, The final object has no difference and due to that nobody can imagine that the object contains some secret message. 

Steganography basically takes advantage of the fact that humans are not able to understand the files with some hidden information, just by their eyes.Also, if someone doesn't know that something is hidden inside a file secretly , then why would they exclusively search for that information. It is basically like hiding information in plain sight, everyone can see it but none can observe and decode it unless they know that something is hidden there and they have appropriate resources or key to decode that information.The most common use of steganography is to hide a file or information inside another file.
